Innovative Methods – Department of Training & Placement
-------------------------------------------------------

Communication Classes
The main objectives of these classes are for improving speaking & writing skills of the students and helping interested students in professional certification like Business English Communication Certification by Cambridge University Press. Students are informed of these classes and asked to enrol if they are interested. During the college hours these students are made into small groups and instructed by the concerned staff. They are guided through group discussions, exercises and for certification. It was observed that students’ written & spoken communication improved. There was a marked increase in their confidence and 43 students were able to pass and obtain BEC certificate during 2019-20.

Alumni Mentoring
At BNMIT we believe that our alumni are our ambassadors at the industries they are employed in. The objective of this mentoring is to provide our final year students with practical advice, shared expertise, real-world experience, encouragement, and support. The alumni at different industries from all branches are contacted every semester and they address the students. It was observed that students highly benefitted from the advice and the number of placements in the college increased. More students were able to gain employment in companies offering higher packages.

Life Skills Training
At BNMIT we believe that “Education is for life and not just for livelihood”. With this perspective in mind the Department of T&P conducts sessions to develop a holistic outlook in the students. Along with professional knowledge, several meta-skills and underlying values are provided to develop the overall personality of the students. The measurable outcomes of this program included improved confidence to speak, better planning to achieve goals, identifying challenges with possible solutions, and understanding the effective use of time. It was observed that students were more confident and showcased this during the placement drives, leading to better placements.

Technical Employability Skill Development
Industries and IT companies today recruit graduates based on skills acquired during their graduation years. With this in view, the department conducts workshops and micro-courses in consultation with recruiting partners for pre-final year students. As a result of these courses, the students were better skilled and industry-ready in the respective domains. An increase in the employability quotient of students in industries – particularly core industries – was observed during placement.

Interviews by Alumni
During 2020, the COVID-19 lockdown helped to develop this innovative method of online mock interviews by alumni. The objective was to equip students with trial experience of online interviews which became the norm during COVID times. It was observed that students learnt to answer questions, develop interview strategies, improve communication skills, reduce st
