Message from HOD
-----------------

Namaskara and a warm welcome to BNM Institute of Technology!

The Department of Training & Placement is immensely proud of achieving 100% placements 
for the BE students of Batch 2018-2022, who have fulfilled the conditions laid down by 
companies visiting the Institution. The Institute, since its inception, has developed 
a strong placement network with blue-chip companies in the information technology, 
manufacturing, engineering, financial services, and other growing sectors.

At BNMIT we believe that “Education is for life and not just for livelihood”. 
With this perspective, the department has designed various training sessions to 
develop a holistic outlook in the students. The students are trained in employability 
skills such as Aptitude, Verbal and Non-Verbal Reasoning, Interview Skills, Group 
Discussion, Resume writing, LSRW listening, Speaking, Reading and Writing Skills. 
Students are provided with exclusive opportunities through campus drives, enabling 
them to start off their careers right after they have completed their graduation. 
Our students grow in a conducive environment to interact and engage with industry 
professionals during the training sessions and placement drives, which help to lay 
a strong foundation for their prospective career.

The department strives hard to train and nurture the students with additional skills 
with a view to creating the right set of inputs needed for different industries. 
Thus, attempting to satisfy the aspirations of the students of being placed in 
companies of good standing thereby achieving a good reputation for the institution.

Various self-assessment and other career exploration tools are employed to examine 
the students’ values, abilities, interests, and personalities. The department guides 
the students in choosing the right electives and courses that will help them meet 
their goals.

In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Department of Training & Placement has come up 
with a unique initiative of ‘Virtual Drop-in Career Guidance’ to offer support to 
students and address their queries regarding placements. Students of any semester can 
visit the department and meet the placement team for clarifications and guidance on 
their job offers & other placement-related activities.

The average starting salaries of our graduates are most competitive with those from 
other institutions. Students who take advantage of the many professional development 
opportunities offered by BNMIT are better prepared to compete in the job market in 
terms of both, job role and starting salaries.

We are on a trajectory to continue achieving laurels and success for our institution. 
We welcome all recruiters to come and experience the spirit of BNMIT. We look forward 
to addressing any of your concerns or expectations with respect to training and 
placements of our students.

Contact us: director_placement@bnmit.in

Dr Saritha Chakrasali
Head, Department of Training & Placement
BNM Institute of Technology
